doc/index.rst, before:

Console library
===============

.. contents::

Overview
--------

The libconsole provides a simple interface between serial devices, such
as UART or USART, and the tasks.

Limitations
"""""""""""

This library is not designed for holding multiple serial lines concurrently.


API
---

Initializing the console
""""""""""""""""""""""""

Initialize the console is made by two functions: ::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   mbed_error_t console_early_init(uint8_t usart_id, uint32_t speed);
   mbed_error_t console_init(void);

``console_early_init()`` function must be called during the task
*initialization phase* while the former ``console_init()`` must be
called after, during the *nominal phase*.

.. note::
   The ``console_early_init()`` can not make the whole initialization
   because the device is still not mapped in task's memory space.

The *usart_id* argument is the identifier of the USART device ,typically 1 to 6
on STM32F4xx SoCs.

The *speed* argument is the serial console speed in bauds (typical values
are 115200, 57600, 38400, 14400 or 9200).
It is possible to set any speed (such as 1Mb/s or older 1200 bps) if it's
supported by the peer.

Printing data on the console
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The console library provides a high level, easy to use logging function to
print-out formated strings on the serial console::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   void console_log(const char *fmt, ...);

This function supported formated output strings the way the printf() familly
functions of the EwoK libstd API handle them.

.. warning::
   This function handle up to 128 bytes length formated output string.
   Longer strings are truncated

Reading a line from the console
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When interacting with a peer through a serial console, a readline() function
is requested. This function is a blocking function returning the command
sent by the peer when a carriage return is sent.

Reading lines on the console interface is done with the following API::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   mbed_error_t console_readline(char *str, uint32_t *len, uint32_t maxlen);

This function is a blocking function, waiting for a command to be sent on the
serial line. The command is consider as sent (and the function is unlocking
its execution) when a *carriage return* is received.
When this event happen, the following is done:

   * The command sent is copied in the str argument, and may be truncated to
     maxlen if the command length is bigger than the current command length
   * The current command buffer is reinitialized
   * If the command copy truncate the received command, the function return
     MBED_ERROR_NOSTORAGE. Otherwise, the function return MBED_ERROR_NONE

Prompting
"""""""""
The libconsole support prompt printing on demand. The goal is to show a prompt
character, followed by a space, on the console: ::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   void console_show_prompt(void);


FAQ
---

Is it possible to declare multiple serial console in a same task ?
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Not yet. The libconsole is using a single global context which does not
permit to handle multiple serial lines in the same time.

Is it possible to read multiple lines at a time ?
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Not at a time, but it is possible to read one line, parse it, and decide to
read another one if needed (for e.g. if the last non-space character is a
backslash)

Is the console USART device unmappable ?
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Not by now. the serial device is mapped automatically by the kernel.

Commit message:

[update] add warning about HW control flow

doc/index.rst, after:

Console library
===============

.. contents::

Overview
--------

The libconsole provides a simple interface between serial devices, such
as UART or USART, and the tasks.

Limitations
"""""""""""

This library is not designed for holding multiple serial lines concurrently.

.. warning::
   The libconsole does not configure any hardware control flow. Deactivate this
   feature from your serial console client


API
---

Initializing the console
""""""""""""""""""""""""

Initialize the console is made by two functions: ::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   mbed_error_t console_early_init(uint8_t usart_id, uint32_t speed);
   mbed_error_t console_init(void);

``console_early_init()`` function must be called during the task
*initialization phase* while the former ``console_init()`` must be
called after, during the *nominal phase*.

.. note::
   The ``console_early_init()`` can not make the whole initialization
   because the device is still not mapped in task's memory space.

The *usart_id* argument is the identifier of the USART device ,typically 1 to 6
on STM32F4xx SoCs.

The *speed* argument is the serial console speed in bauds (typical values
are 115200, 57600, 38400, 14400 or 9200).
It is possible to set any speed (such as 1Mb/s or older 1200 bps) if it's
supported by the peer.

Printing data on the console
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The console library provides a high level, easy to use logging function to
print-out formated strings on the serial console::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   void console_log(const char *fmt, ...);

This function supported formated output strings the way the printf() familly
functions of the EwoK libstd API handle them.

.. warning::
   This function handle up to 128 bytes length formated output string.
   Longer strings are truncated

Reading a line from the console
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When interacting with a peer through a serial console, a readline() function
is requested. This function is a blocking function returning the command
sent by the peer when a carriage return is sent.

Reading lines on the console interface is done with the following API::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   mbed_error_t console_readline(char *str, uint32_t *len, uint32_t maxlen);

This function is a blocking function, waiting for a command to be sent on the
serial line. The command is consider as sent (and the function is unlocking
its execution) when a *carriage return* is received.
When this event happen, the following is done:

   * The command sent is copied in the str argument, and may be truncated to
     maxlen if the command length is bigger than the current command length
   * The current command buffer is reinitialized
   * If the command copy truncate the received command, the function return
     MBED_ERROR_NOSTORAGE. Otherwise, the function return MBED_ERROR_NONE

Prompting
"""""""""
The libconsole support prompt printing on demand. The goal is to show a prompt
character, followed by a space, on the console: ::

   #include "libconsole.h"

   void console_show_prompt(void);


FAQ
---

Is it possible to declare multiple serial console in a same task ?
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Not yet. The libconsole is using a single global context which does not
permit to handle multiple serial lines in the same time.

Is it possible to read multiple lines at a time ?
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Not at a time, but it is possible to read one line, parse it, and decide to
read another one if needed (for e.g. if the last non-space character is a
backslash)

Is the console USART device unmappable ?
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Not by now. the serial device is mapped automatically by the kernel.
